All right, performance.
So, I [LAUGH] had sent out a tweet
a while ago about what people would love
to learn more about web dev tools and
like pretty much across the board I
got that people are scared
of the performance tab.
That's like a very [LAUGH] common
response that I found from people.
But it's really not that scary,
but it is very, very powerful.
For a little bit of context,
it used to be two different tabs.
They've kind of combined into one,
and it has a lot of data.
And so, the kind of high level view of how
to use this is you go to the Performance
tab, you click on this record button.
You interact with the site, doing anything
you want, and then you click stop.
Some top level advice is to keep your
recordings as small as possible so
they keep you from being overwhelmed
with like ten seconds worth of data.
So, I usually, if I'm nervous about like
filling in a form, I'll click Record,
fill in the form quickly and click stop.
Try to keep it contained
as much as possible.
You can also deselect things
depending on what you're looking at.
So, right now I have memory
showing down in this section.
Let's say I'm not concerned with
memory right now, I can just hide it.
I also have the same screenshots from the
Network tab, which can be really useful.
You're seeing how your JavaScript
causes stuff to render, but
if you're not looking for it at the time,
you can just deselect it.
And so, what you'll kind of be left
with here is a little bit of showing how
the website painted itself over time.
So, this is your frames per
second across the very top.
And this is the CPU
usage across the bottom.
And then, you'll see all these
different frames down here.
So, you can see almost everything
is gonna happen in the main thread.
But you can see stuff like when it's
rasterizing, when it's using the GPU,
all those different things.
We'll have a full lesson on performance
auditing and stuff like that.
But the basic idea is you hit Record, you
do something that you're worried about,
and then you hit Stop.
And you can come in here and
you can look for like, is there page jank?
Like is it lagging?
What's the main thread doing?
How busy is it?
What's the memory usage?
Or what's my CPU usage?
Is it getting too high?
All sorts of things like that.
I think it's best to come in here
with a specific question in mind,
that also helps reduce how
overwhelming it can be.
So, it'd be like, I really wanna
know if I have a memory leak.
That's what I care about.
So, you can turn on the memory,
you can do your thing and you can look for
a memory leak and we'll do that
in the appropriate section too.
Console, probably the most popular one.
It's really cool, it's a JavaScript grepl.
So, you can type stuff like
console.log('hi'), and it'll type hi.
You could do var foo = 'foo',
and it'll save that.
And then later, you can do foo.
That's pretty straightforward.
Anytime you put a console log in
your code, it'll log out here.
But there's also some really
other cool things you can do.
Like for an example,
you can go into the elements tab, and
you can find an element like let's say
this article, you can click on it.
Then you go back into the console tab and
you can do dollar sign zero.
And dollar sign zero is a shortcode for
whatever I last clicked
on in the elements tab.
So, if you hit enter, you can see it
brings this article into the console.
So, now if I wanted to manipulate it,
like I could do,
addEventListener, click or
something like that.
You can take an element from the elements
tab, you can bring it into the console,
you can mess with it there,
which is pretty cool.
All right, next is the Security tab.
Again, this one's pretty straightforward.
It just gives you an overview
on the security for your page.
So, it is the de facto standard these days
that all sites should load over HTTPS.
There's all these really cool resources,
like Let's Encrypt,
which gives you Just
free SSL certificates.
And so if you go to any website and
you click any open dev tools and
click on the security,
it'll give you an overview.
And the reason that there's
an overview is one, it'll tell you
if the actual index dot HTML file, like
the main request was served over HTTPS.
But it'll also tell you if any subsequent
requests were served over HTTP,
which can be insecure.
So, you could have a fully secure site,
and then you add like an embed for
a video or something like that.
And that might be over HTTP,
which still leaves you vulnerable.
So this is cool.
Basically, on the high level, you want
to open it and you want to see green.
That's what you want.
If you open it and you see green,
everything's good.
If you see any orange or red, it'll
give you appropriate instructions for
why it's doing that.
It also lets you view the SSL certificate
itself if you have any reason to be
viewing that.